# Day 3: JavaScript, Terminal, & GitHub, Oh My!

_January 27: Continuing recap_

## Working on the "speak" proficiency of programming

### Peer challenge

Peer programming is working with 1 peer together (e.g. your neighbor at your desk). 

There are 2 roles: 
* driver (writing code)
* observer (pointer/navigator), they'll suggest improvements, solving the problem

Tends to take 10-15% longer, but results in better code. We'll switch up roles at some point during the exercise.

## Terminal 

There's no visual feedback in the terminal, besides the prompt (e.g., `$`). `~ <username>` indicates current directory.

### Basic commands
* `ls				//	Lists what's in directory`
	* `ls -l 		//	Lists contents of directory long-form`
	* `ls -la 		//	Lists ALL contents, including hidden`
* `pwd				//	Literally print working directory`
* `cd <path> 		//	Change directory, accepts absolute (globally) and relative paths`
	* `cd /			// 	Goes to root`
	* `cd ~			// 	Goes to home`
	* `cd ..		//	Goes up 1 level in the directory structure (each dot adds 1 more level)`
* `mkdir <name>		//	Makes new folder with given name NB: avoid spaces in folder and filenames !important`
* `open <path>		//	Opens path in Finder (GUI)`
* `man ls 			//	Displays a "manual" for the command you're researching, all options available, syntax, etc. To leave the manual, type q.`
* `whatis <command>	//	Short, 1-line summary of what a command does`
* `whoami			//	Shows what username you are logged in as`
* `clean			//	Clears the terminal window, for a less cluttered look`

### Other notable things
Terminal has autocomplete, so you start typing something, hit tab, and it will try to complete what you want.

/ is root. ~ is home.

__Why 1 dash, or 2 dashes?__ 1 dash is used with multiple commands. 2 dashes are used with a specific command, written out as a word, not separate letters.

You can hit return as much as you'd like! Hitting the up arrow will cycle through a history of your most recent commands.

## Git
### What is Git?
It is a distributed version control system. Invented by inventor of Linux, Linus Torvalds.

### What is version control?
Keeping track of the history of a project over time.

### Why should we use it?
Every company uses Git. It renders chaos into clarity.

### 4 stages of files in Git
* Untracked - Git doesn't know about it
* Unmodified - Git knows about it, but doesn't see any changes made to it since it was last saved
* Modified - Git knows about it, and sees changes
* Staged - Ready to commit, would go back to "unmodified" after committing

Commit: Snapshot of your project at any given time

Quit out of `vi`: `:q!`

git init
git add
git commit
rm -r .git
git status
git remote add origin
git remote show
git log
git push
